Like all of the Microsoft Office programs,
Microsoft Word contains an application called a Visual Basic Editor,
which is used for editing VB.
A code in this section will cover all the basics of working in the visual basic editor
environment within the Phoebe.
The first window that you need to get used to is the Project Explorer,
and this is the launch pad for all your VB a code in activities.
And that's what we'll be talking about in this video.
To access the visual basic editor,
click on the developer tab and then either click on the visual Basic button or press old 11
.
The keyboard shortcut Visual Basic Editor is an old style Microsoft application.
It has menus,
two bars and floating windows and,
as was traditional with this style of application to make the various windows in tool bars
visible,
you go to the view menu.
So here we can see the various windows,
and here we can see the different tool bars,
and you can also right click on any toolbar and choose the name of the toolbar to hide or
show it.
The Project Explorer is probably the first port of call when you go into the visual basic
editor because it's from here that you can launch all of the containers for your VB,
a code it is not visible.
You simply go to view and shoes Project Explorer or use the shortcut control are within the
Project Explorer window.
You'll see a project correspondent,
every document or template that's currently opening word,
and you'll probably see an extra project related to the normal template,
which is associated with the application.
A project is simply a container,
a code.
So when you think of projects,
just think of the term code project.
It's also worth pointing out that the project is always there.
It doesn't imply that the rest code associated with that particular document every single
word documents when you enter the visual basic editor will have a project already associate
it with it.
So it's both the way of access inexistent code,
which has been associated with a particular document or template and also creating the code
in the first place.
Although most of the code that will be creating in this course will relate to Mac Rose,
there are,
in fact,
four different ways of adding VB,
a code to a document or template to help us explore these.
Let's just open a document that's been prepared.
So I'm just going to close the VD for the moment and minimize word,
and that's going to the Exercises folder.
We're now in Section two,
and inside this you'll find a file called 0 to 01 project.
Examples.
You'll notice that it has a d o T m file extension on this is a macro enabled template to
open a template so you can edit it.
You can't simply double click because that action will create a blank document based on the
template.
Instead,
simply right,
click and choose open inside this document.
Let's just zoom out.
You'll see we've got a diagram,
which shows you the different types of container inside,
which you can place your maybe a code.
So we'll be focusing mainly on modules,
which is where you can actually create Mac rose.
But in addition to this is,
you'll see we have word objects,
which basically just contains this document,
and this is an object referring to the document itself.
Then we have user forms,
class modules.
Let's now go back into the visual basic editor on here,
we can see examples off those four different types of container and we'll just go through
them in order.
So I'm going to close down all the various code window so we can start from scratch.
Okay,
So in this project,
with prepared examples of each of the four different code containers,
the 1st 1 in a folder labeled Microsoft Word Objects contains this document and this
basically is the programmatic representation off the document in question the document to
which this project relates.
So obviously,
in this case,
there is a visual representation which you access by simply going back to word.
And now you're working with the object itself.
But from a programmatic point of view,
this object basically can contain code which relates to the document.
To access this code,
you double click on the icon.
You can also right click and choose view code.
The code that you place inside this object is not a macro.
It's basically an event handler.
This is a subroutine which will execute when a given event occurs on the events which
relate specifically to documents.
Ah,
opening and closing.
This particular sub procedure called document new relates only to templates,
and it's triggered every time a new document is created,
which is based on that template.
So here,
basically,
we can see chemistry books,
which is a function that's used to display a message for the user,
and it's simply a reminder.
Please remember to save your work frequently,
and then this parameter specifies that it's a dialog box that has an exclamation mark.
Ah,
in other words,
we kind of shout into the user so not recommended.
If you are doing this at work,
let's just test it.
Simple clothes and instead of right clicking and choosing open well now double click.
This gives us a blank document based on the template,
which in turn triggers our code on outcomes are MSG Box.
There's the exclamation mark inventions,
so we click.
OK,
we'll get rid of this,
and then we'll go back in by right clicking and choosing open.
So we once again editing the template itself.
Now let's go back to develop a visual basic.
I'm just going Teoh,
go back to this document by double clicking on the icon.
That then is an example off an event handler,
which basically will take place when a new document is created based on that template.
Next,
we have user forms.
So again I can just double click to show you they use a form,
basically,
is a customised dialogue inside it.
You can place all of these different types of control.
So it's quite a nice way of getting your code your macro to be a lot more flexible by
creating a user interface,
which allows the user to make choices and to tweak the way in which your code runs to enter
parameters which your macro can then used to make decisions.
So it's quite a powerful feature,
and we will be covering user forms in detail to add kowtow,
use of form you simply double thick on the control to which you want to add that
functionality.
So here,
clearly,
we want things to happen when the user has finished,
enter in their name and then clicks on the continuum.
So for our code,
it would double click on continue.
We would then automatically be given a sub procedure which uses the name of the control in
this case has been named BT and continued,
and the action in this case it's a click.
Okay,
moving on.
We have modules,
and this is where we'll put most of the code that we do in this course,
because this is where you actually create Mac Rose.
Or as we saw when we used in the recorder.
This is where macro code is automatically generated by the recorder.
So if we couple click on Model one,
which is the only model we have here,
you'll see it contains a single macron.
We can tell it's a macro by the use of the word suburb,
and the macro is called show form.
Inside it.
That's just to sing the line,
and this name,
you'll probably noticed marries up with the name of our form.
So we have to prefix FRM for full and then the form is called Sign in and essentially
you'll realize DOT show is used to display the form so we can run it from here and up comes
on full.
I understand to my name and click continue,
So I don't think we need to say anything mawr on models,
because this is where we'll be spending most of our time creating various sub procedures
within modules,
so that just leaves then class modules.
This is basically an advanced feature,
and it's slightly beyond the scope of this introductory VB a title.
But I will explain what class modules are.
They're basically containers for object oriented code.
Object oriented code refers to a style of programming,
which is suitable for large scale applications,
whether it's a significant amount of code,
usually collaboration between different programmers.
Given the size of the project,
there is a lot of scope for errors creeping in and due to code that belongs to one area of
an application,
interfering with the functionality of code related to a completely different area.
Object oriented programming provides a mechanism for divide in code into isolated
compartments.
Andi basically structure in your code in the form of black boxes,
if you like,
and this is done by defining classes.
Each class relates to a specific area of the application and is effectively a blueprint
containing all the code related to that particular area.
So we double click to look inside it.
You'll see we have a bare bones class relating to the user on it contains basically three
properties or attributes of the user relating to the user name,
and there are three types of user name one is you could simply ask the user,
Enter your name.
So here we've got name entered.
Then there's the word name,
and the system is your windows log on name.
So basically,
this class shows a fragment of code that you might use if you were creating a class which
kept track off user activity.
Okay,
so there we have it.
Those are the four types of object into which you can place your VB a code.
There is one other folder that you may see Inside Project called Reference.
And although it's not a container for code,
I should just explain what the reference folder is full from the code.
In points of view,
it basically provides a mechanism right in references two documents or templates that
contain code.
Say,
for example,
let's just close this down and safe and then just go back into the Exercises folder.
If you're not still where and in zero to,
you'll see that we have here a back row enabled documents.
It's not a template this time called Ref.
Let's just go into this.
So is currently a blank document.
When we go to developer visual Basic,
you'll see it contains a reference to normal because it was based on that template.
Let's say that we want to create a reference to the template that we've just been working
in.
We go back to developer and on the right hand side,
click on document Template.
Here we can click on Attach,
work our way into the Exercises folder Minds on the Destiny Section zero to and here's our
project Example Macro enable template.
So we double click to open this click.
OK,
so now when we get back to the visual basic editor you'll see in our reference folder,
we have a reference to that file.
As a consequence of that reference,
we now have the project off that file available.
So here are the four containers that we've just been discussing,
and as it stands,
we can actually modify all of those from within the current document.
So by creating that reference,
we actually now have access to all the code in objects within that file.
So I could come in here,
for example,
and perhaps adding a button.
So as you can probably guess,
we can duplicate a button by copying and paste in,
and you can also duplicate by holding down the control key and just dragging.
So I'm just gonna tidy that up,
making it smaller,
maintaining a caption on it,
too canceled.
Then I'm going to rename it.
So here's my properties window.
It's not visible.
It's just view properties window,
and the name is the very first parameter.
We're going to use the prefix b TN cancel answer.
And then I want to put some code on it,
which will simply close the window.
So I double click on a sub procedures automatically generated using the name of my control
,
PT and cancel and the Event click,
which is exactly the event that I want.
So here I can simply say,
unload,
followed by the name of our form and to test it.
I'm just going to go back to a word,
Mac Rose and run the show for Macron that brings up with full and then I can cancel.
So those changes of automatically been made to the document itself.
And if I were now too quick word,
it's gonna ask me two things.
Do I want to save the changes to ref,
which is the documents I've currently got open so I'll say yes.
But it's also going to ask me,
Do I want to save my changes to project examples?
And again I will say yes.
A project is simply the container for all code associated with a document or template.
Within each project.
VB a code may be implemented in four ways by creating macros within a module.
My writing event handlers in the this document object my writing event handlers for user
form controls and by creating class modules.
And remember any document which contains VB a code must be saved is a macro naval documents
.